TITLE: Effects of syndication network on specialisation and performance of venture capital firms

AUTHORS: Qing Yao, Shaodong Ma, Jing Liang, Kim Christensen, Wanru Jing, Ruiqi Li

PUBLISHED: 2022-11-02

ABSTRACT:
The Chinese venture capital (VC) market is a young and rapidly expanding
financial subsector. Gaining a deeper understanding of the investment
behaviours of VC firms is crucial for the development of a more sustainable and
healthier market and economy. Contrasting evidence supports that either
specialisation or diversification helps to achieve a better investment
performance. However, the impact of the syndication network is overlooked.
Syndication network has a great influence on the propagation of information and
trust. By exploiting an authoritative VC dataset of thirty-five-year investment
information in China, we construct a joint-investment network of VC firms and
analyse the effects of syndication and diversification on specialisation and
investment performance. There is a clear correlation between the syndication
network degree and specialisation level of VC firms, which implies that the
well-connected VC firms are diversified. More connections generally bring about
more information or other resources, and VC firms are more likely to enter a
new stage or industry with some new co-investing VC firms when compared to a
randomised null model. Moreover, autocorrelation analysis of both
specialisation and success rate on the syndication network indicates that
clustering of similar VC firms is roughly limited to the secondary
neighbourhood. When analysing local clustering patterns, we discover that,
contrary to popular beliefs, there is no apparent successful club of investors.
In contrast, investors with low success rates are more likely to cluster. Our
discoveries enrich the understanding of VC investment behaviours and can assist
policymakers in designing better strategies to promote the development of the
VC industry.

CATEGORIES: physics.soc-ph, econ.EM, stat.AP

URL: http://arxiv.org/abs/2211.00873v1
PDF: http://arxiv.org/pdf/2211.00873v1
