TITLE: Robust blue-green urban flood risk management optimised with a genetic algorithm for multiple rainstorm return periods

AUTHORS: Asid Ur Rehman, Vassilis Glenis, Elizabeth Lewis, Chris Kilsby, Claire Walsh

PUBLISHED: 2025-02-13

ABSTRACT:
Flood risk managers seek to optimise Blue-Green Infrastructure (BGI) designs
to maximise return on investment. Current systems often use optimisation
algorithms and detailed flood models to maximise benefit-cost ratios for single
rainstorm return periods. However, these schemes may lack robustness in
mitigating flood risks across different storm magnitudes. For example, a BGI
scheme optimised for a 100-year return period may differ from one optimised for
a 10-year return period. This study introduces a novel methodology
incorporating five return periods (T = 10, 20, 30, 50, and 100 years) into a
multi-objective BGI optimisation framework. The framework combines a
Non-dominated Sorting Genetic Algorithm II (NSGA-II) with a fully distributed
hydrodynamic model to optimise the spatial placement and combined size of BGI
features. For the first time, direct damage cost (DDC) and expected annual
damage (EAD), calculated for various building types, are used as risk objective
functions, transforming a many-objective problem into a multi-objective one.
Performance metrics such as Median Risk Difference (MedRD), Maximum Risk
Difference (MaxRD), and Area Under Pareto Front (AUPF) reveal that a 100-year
optimised BGI design performs poorly when evaluated for other return periods,
particularly shorter ones. In contrast, a BGI design optimised using composite
return periods enhances performance metrics across all return periods, with the
greatest improvements observed in MedRD (22%) and AUPF (73%) for the 20-year
return period, and MaxRD (23%) for the 50-year return period. Furthermore,
climate uplift stress testing confirms the robustness of the proposed design to
future rainfall extremes. This study advocates a paradigm shift in flood risk
management, moving from single maximum to multiple rainstorm return
period-based designs to enhance resilience and adaptability to future climate
extremes.

CATEGORIES: cs.NE, cs.CE, cs.CY

URL: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.12174v1
PDF: http://arxiv.org/pdf/2502.12174v1
